Presentation 3 : Detailed
-------------------------

Applications of Quantum Computers [z]
-------------------------------------
Route Optimization for Multimodal Transport Systems
	Volkswagen has developed an android-based app that supplies bus drivers with the best route to their destination given current traffic conditions.

	Volkswagen has developed an android-based app that regularly communicates with a cloud-based ‘quantum web service’ (QWS) platform. This supplies bus drivers running the app with the best route to their destination given current traffic conditions.


Building the Smart Cities of the Future
	Groovenauts and Mitsubishi Estate are creating sustainable cities through Waste collection optimization. The project optimizes the collection and transportation of waste in the Marunouchi area of Tokyo, a special urban regeneration area. In addition, the project has led to a reduction in C02 emissions. They did this by creating a model that forecasts the amount of every type of waste generated by different buildings over several months.  


Kidney Exchange Network
	Accenture aims to develop a robust donor-patient matching algorithm to be used by hospital networks and government agencies nationwide. This finds optimal matches in a kidney exchange network based on a statistical model of patient-donor attributes. This problem has previously been regarded as intractable


Designing Peptide Therapeutics on a Quantum Computer
	Peptides are mid-size molecules composed of amino acids and constitute some of nature's best drugs. Peptides make proteins. Designing these mid-size molecules computationally remains a challenge due to the astronomical search space and complex energy dynamics. Quantum annealing and hybrid approaches may offer a new alternative toolkit for designing peptide therapeutics that could hold the key to groundbreaking new drugs.

Optimized Planning and Scheduling
	British multinational defense, security, and aerospace company - BAE Systems - undertook an assessment of how to optimize planning and scheduling of operations, distribution, and telecommunications across dozens of major industries using quantum computing. 


A Hybrid Quantum-Classical Recommendation System
	Shopping for the right car can be a complicated process, but software engineers at Volkswagen are hoping to make it just a little bit easier. Using a hybrid classical-quantum approach, they’ve built a recommendation system that understands customer biases, preferences, and behaviors, then helps them select and customize their ideal vehicle.


The search for new Batteries
	Quantum computers are being used to simulate chemical reactions in batteries. This enables us to think about new materials and the structure of the batteries needed to power the next generation of devices. 



Quantum computing in Cybersecurity
----------------------------------
https://www.technologyreview.com/2019/07/12/134211/explainer-what-is-post-quantum-cryptography/


Quantum computing in Artificial Intelligence [y]
------------------------------------------------
Quantum Computers Solve Complex Problems Quickly
	Quantum computers will be able to complete calculations within seconds that would take today’s computers thousands of years to calculate. Quantum computing algorithms allow us to enhance what’s already possible with machine learning. 

Quantum Computers can Spot Patterns in Large Data Sets
	Quantum computers can access all items in your dataset at the same time drawing out similarities. Parallel computer looks at every record one after another, so it takes a long time depending on the size of the data set. This will speed up AI solutions. 

Quantum Computers Will Optimise Solutions
	The big data era that we are currently in necessitates the need for a different computational approach to handling big data. Quantum computers are better equipped to solve sequential problems efficiently.
	
	The promise is that quantum computers will allow for quick analysis and integration of our enormous data sets which will improve and transform our machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities.



Major Breakthroughs in Quantum Computing 
----------------------------------------
Team develops simulator with 256 qubits, largest of its kind ever created. (July 2021)
	A team of physicists from the Harvard-MIT Center for Ultracold Atoms and other universities has developed a special type of quantum computer known as a programmable quantum simulator capable of operating with 256 quantum bits, or “qubits.” [x]

A UK start-up says it has made one of the world's smallest quantum computers (September 2021)
	Firstly, it's not cryogenically cooled, it's all at room temperature. The 32-qubit computer uses photons to  represent qubits as photons do not interfere with the outside environment.  [w]
	
Quantum Supremacy by google (2019)
	Google says that its 54-qubit Sycamore processor was able to perform a calculation in 200 seconds that would have taken the world’s most powerful supercomputer 10,000 years. That would mean the calculation, which involved generated random numbers, is essentially impossible on a traditional, non-quantum computer.
	[v]

Chinese researchers claim to design world's fastest quantum  []
	Zuchongzhi 2.1 able to perform 10M times faster than fastest existing supercomputer
	[t]


Why we have not achieved quantum supremacy
------------------------------------------
1. Decoherence 
	- Errors occur much more often than with classical computing, making error correction the dominant task that quantum architectures need to perform well [u]. Noise, temperature change, an electrical fluctuation or vibration — all of these things can disturb a qubit’s operation and cause it to lose its data.
	* Fragile State of Qubits necessitates special storage facilities
	* One way to stabilize qubits is to keep them very cold. An average desktop computer uses between 60 and 300 watts. A quantum computer setup consumes less than 25000W of power. That’s not for the computation. That’s for the cooling.

	=> While competing technologies and competing architectures are attacking these problems, no existing hardware platform can maintain coherence and provide the robust error correction required for large-scale computation. A breakthrough is probably several years away.

2. Operating Systems and Programming Languages 
	- Programming languanges in the world would basically needed to be recreated for quantum computers. So many things need to be recreated in order to work well with quantum computers ie Games, Operating systems, programs




References
-----------

